32314198|t|Hippocampal activation and connectivity in the aging brain.
32314198|a|The hippocampus and underlying cortices are highly susceptible to pathologic change with increasing age. Using an associative face-scene (Face-Place) encoding task designed to target these regions, we investigated activation and connectivity patterns in cognitively normal older adults. Functional MRI scans were collected in 210 older participants (mean age = 76.4 yrs) in the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging (BLSA). Brain activation patterns were examined during encoding of novel Face-Place pairs. Functional connectivity of the hippocampus was also examined during encoding, with seed regions placed along the longitudinal axis in the head, body and tail of the structure. In the temporal lobe, task activation patterns included coverage of the hippocampus and underlying ventral temporal cortices. Extensive activation was also seen in frontal, parietal and occipital lobes of the brain. Functional connectivity analyses during overall encoding showed that the head of the hippocampus was connected to frontal and anterior/middle temporal regions, the body with frontal, widespread temporal and occipital regions, and the tail with posterior temporal and occipital cortical regions. Connectivity limited to encoding of subsequently remembered stimuli showed a similar pattern for the hippocampal body, but differing patterns for the head and tail regions. These results show that the Face-Place task produces activation along the occipitotemporal visual pathway including medial temporal areas. The connectivity results also show that patterns of functional connectivity vary throughout the anterior-posterior extent of the hippocampus during memory encoding. As these patterns include regions vulnerable to pathologic change in early stages of Alzheimer's disease, continued longitudinal assessment of these individuals can provide valuable information regarding changes in brain-behavior relationships that may occur with advancing age and the onset of cognitive decline.
32314198	1816	1835	Alzheimer's disease	Disease	MESH:D000544
32314198	2026	2043	cognitive decline	Disease	MESH:D003072

