34308905|t|PRATEEK: Integration of Multimodal Neuroimaging Data to Facilitate Advanced Brain Research.
34308905|a|BACKGROUND: In vivo neuroimaging modalities such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), functional MRI (fMRI), magnetoencephalography (MEG), magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS), and quantitative susceptibility mapping (QSM) are useful techniques to understand brain anatomical structure, functional activity, source localization, neurochemical profiles, and tissue susceptibility respectively. Integrating unique and distinct information from these neuroimaging modalities will further help to enhance the understanding of complex neurological diseases. OBJECTIVE: To develop a processing scheme for multimodal data integration in a seamless manner on healthy young population, thus establishing a generalized framework for various clinical conditions (e.g., Alzheimer's disease). METHODS: A multimodal data integration scheme has been developed to integrate the outcomes from multiple neuroimaging data (fMRI, MEG, MRS, and QSM) spatially. Furthermore, the entire scheme has been incorporated into a user-friendly toolbox- "PRATEEK". RESULTS: The proposed methodology and toolbox has been tested for viability among fourteen healthy young participants. The data-integration scheme was tested for bilateral occipital cortices as the regions of interest and can also be extended to other anatomical regions. Overlap percentage from each combination of two modalities (fMRI-MRS, MEG-MRS, fMRI-QSM, and fMRI-MEG) has been computed and also been qualitatively assessed for combinations of the three (MEG-MRS-QSM) and four (fMRI-MEG-MRS-QSM) modalities. CONCLUSION: This user-friendly toolbox minimizes the need of an expertise in handling different neuroimaging tools for processing and analyzing multimodal data. The proposed scheme will be beneficial for clinical studies where geometric information plays a crucial role for advance brain research.
34308905	623	644	neurological diseases	Disease	MESH:D020271
34308905	851	870	Alzheimer's disease	Disease	MESH:D000544

