34377363|t|Insight into membraneless organelles and their associated proteins: Drivers, Clients and Regulators.
34377363|a|In recent years, attention has been devoted to proteins forming immiscible liquid phases within the liquid intracellular medium, commonly referred to as membraneless organelles (MLO). These organelles enable the spatiotemporal associations of cellular components that exchange dynamically with the cellular milieu. The dysregulation of these liquid-liquid phase separation processes (LLPS) may cause various diseases including neurodegenerative pathologies and cancer, among others. Until very recently, databases containing information on proteins forming MLOs, as well as tools and resources facilitating their analysis, were missing. This has recently changed with the publication of 4 databases that focus on different types of experiments, sets of proteins, inclusion criteria, and levels of annotation or curation. In this study we integrate and analyze the information across these databases, complement their records, and produce a consolidated set of proteins that enables the investigation of the LLPS phenomenon. To gain insight into the features that characterize different types of MLOs and the roles of their associated proteins, they were grouped into categories: High Confidence MLO associated (including Drivers and reviewed proteins), Potential Clients and Regulators, according to their annotated functions. We show that none of the databases taken alone covers the data sufficiently to enable meaningful analysis, validating our integration effort as essential for gaining better understanding of phase separation and laying the foundations for the discovery of new proteins potentially involved in this important cellular process. Lastly, we developed a server, enabling customized selections of different sets of proteins based on MLO location, database, disorder content, among other attributes (https://forti.shinyapps.io/mlos/).
34377363	528	557	neurodegenerative pathologies	Disease	MESH:D019636
34377363	562	568	cancer	Disease	MESH:D009369

