35857768|t|Detection of changes in literary writing style using N-grams as style markers and supervised machine learning.
35857768|a|The analysis of an author's writing style implies the characterization and identification of the style in terms of a set of features commonly called linguistic features. The analysis can be extrinsic, where the style of an author can be compared with other authors, or intrinsic, where the style of an author is identified through different stages of his life. Intrinsic analysis has been used, for example, to detect mental illness and the effects of aging. A key element of the analysis is the style markers used to model the author's writing patterns. The style markers should handle diachronic changes and be thematic independent. One of the most commonly used style marker in extrinsic style analysis is n-gram. In this paper, we present the evaluation of traditional n-grams (words and characters) and dependency tree syntactic n-grams to solve the task of detecting changes in writing style over time. Our corpus consisted of novels by eleven English-speaking authors. The novels of each author were organized chronologically from the oldest to the most recent work according to the date of publication. Subsequently, two stages were defined: initial and final. In each stage three novels were assigned, novels of the initial stage corresponded to the oldest and those at the final stage to the most recent novels. To analyze changes in the writing style, novels were characterized by using four types of n-grams: characters, words, Part-Of-Speech (POS) tags and syntactic relations n-grams. Experiments were performed with a Logistic Regression classifier. Dimension reduction techniques such as Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA) algorithms were evaluated. The results obtained with the different n-grams indicated that all authors presented significant changes in writing style over time. In addition, representations using n-grams of syntactic relations have achieved competitive results among different authors.
35857768	529	543	mental illness	Disease	MESH:D001523

