37144615|t|Using the Delphi process to determine the minimum clinically important effect size for the Balanced-2 randomised controlled trial.
37144615|a|BACKGROUND: The sample size calculation is an important step in designing randomised controlled trials. For a trial comparing a control and an intervention group, where the outcome is binary, the sample size calculation requires choosing values for the anticipated event rates in both the control and intervention groups (the effect size), and the error rates. The Difference ELicitation in TriAls guidance recommends that the effect size should be both realistic, and clinically important to stakeholder groups. Overestimating the effect size leads to sample sizes that are too small to reliably detect the true population effect size, which in turn results in low achieved power. In this study, we use the Delphi approach to gain consensus on what the minimum clinically important effect size is for Balanced-2, a randomised controlled trial comparing processed electroencephalogram-guided 'light' to 'deep' general anaesthesia on the incidence of postoperative delirium in older adults undergoing major surgery. METHODS: Delphi rounds were conducted using electronic surveys. Surveys were administered to two stakeholder groups: specialist anaesthetists from a general adult department in Auckland City Hospital, New Zealand (Group 1), and specialist anaesthetists with expertise in clinical research, identified from the Australian and New Zealand College of Anaesthetist's Clinical Trials Network (Group 2). A total of 187 anaesthetists were invited to participate (81 from Group 1 and 106 from Group 2). Results from each Delphi round were summarised and presented in subsequent rounds until consensus was reached (>70% agreement). RESULTS: The overall response rate for the first Delphi survey was 47% (88/187). The median minimum clinically important effect size was 5.0% (interquartile range: 5.0-10.0) for both stakeholder groups. The overall response rate for the second Delphi survey was 51% (95/187). Consensus was reached after the second round, as 74% of respondents in Group 1 and 82% of respondents in Group 2 agreed with the median effect size. The combined minimum clinically important effect size across both groups was 5.0% (interquartile range: 3.0-6.5). CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that surveying stakeholder groups using a Delphi process is a simple way of defining a minimum clinically important effect size, which aids the sample size calculation and determines whether a randomised study is feasible.
37144615	1081	1103	postoperative delirium	Disease	MESH:D000071257

