37386662|t|The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic as a source of unprecedented bioethical and biolaw issues: lessons for intensivists.
37386662|a|The following article presents the relevant and unprecedented bioethical and biolaw issues posed by the SARS-COV-2 pandemic and summarizes the initiatives adopted by the Italian Society of Anesthesia and Resuscitation (SIAARTI) as well as by the Veneto Region ICU Network. Since the initial phase of the pandemic, in March 2020, there has been a strong appeal from both SIAARTI and the Veneto Region ICU Network to consider "the appropriate intensive treatment." During the pandemic, the principle of proportionality must be applied, in compliance with the main principle in bioethics. This encompasses the concept of clinical appropriateness, based on the efficacy of the treatment in specific case and context, as well as the concept of ethical appropriateness, which refers to ethical and juridical principles of acceptance of health care. The "appropriate treatment" must never interfere with the withdrawal of patients, who are not eligible for intensive treatments since they would not benefit from them and who are eligible for ordinary treatments that must be maintained, and, where necessary, palliative treatments were initiated. On the other hand, it must not encroach on unreasonable obstinacy. At the end of 2020, the SIAARTI-SIMLA (Italian Society of Insurance and Legal Medicine) document provides healthcare professionals with a tool for responding appropriately to the emergency of the pandemic, in the event of an imbalance between healthcare demand and available resources. The document states that the ICU triage should be based on global evaluation of each patient, taking into account well-defined parameters and stresses that each person potentially eligible for intensive care should have a shared care planning (SCP) stipulated, and, when necessary, a proxy should be nominated. This has illustrated how the biolaw issues encountered by intensivists during the pandemic, such as those relating to consent and refusal to medical treatment, even when it is lifesaving, as well as requests for treatment of unproven clinical efficacy, were subject to appropriate guidelines and solutions through the application of Law 219/2017 (provisions for informed consent and advance directives treatment). Communication with family members and the management of sensitive personal data; the evaluation of "legal capacity" of comprehension and informed decision-making regarding the proposed treatment plan; and the need for emergency medical intervention in the absence of consent are all addressed in light of the relevant regulations and the particular conditions of social isolation induced by the pandemic. The collaborative ICUs network sustained by the Veneto Region has given great prominence to clinical bioethics issues, and as a result, multidisciplinary integration with the help of legal and juridical experts was developed. This has led to an increase in skills in the bioethical field, as well as providing a valuable lesson for the improvement of therapeutic relationships with critically ill patients and their families.
37386662	4	14	SARS-CoV-2	Disease	MESH:D000086382
37386662	3114	3128	critically ill	Disease	MESH:D016638

