37463284|t|'Life is about movement-everything that is alive moves': a mixed methods study to understand barriers and enablers to inpatient mobility from the older patient's perspective.
37463284|a|BACKGROUND: Mobility in hospital is important to maintain independence and prevent complications. Our multi-centre study aimed to measure mobility and identify barriers and enablers to mobility participation from the older patient's perspective. METHODS: Mixed methods study including direct observation of adult inpatients on 20 acute care wards in 12 hospitals and semi-structured interviews with adults aged 65 years or older on each of these wards. Interviews were undertaken by trained staff during the inpatient stay. Quantitative data were analysed descriptively. Qualitative data were initially coded deductively using the theoretical domains framework (TDF), with an inductive approach then used to frame belief statements. RESULTS: Of 10,178 daytime observations of 503 adult inpatients only 7% of time was spent walking or standing. Two hundred older patient interviews were analysed. Most (85%) patients agreed that mobilising in hospital was very important. Twenty-three belief statements were created across the eight most common TDF domains. Older inpatients recognised mobility benefits and were self-motivated to mobilise in hospital, driven by goals of maintaining or recovering strength and health and returning home. However, they struggled with managing pain, other symptoms and new or pre-existing disability in a rushed, cluttered environment where they did not wish to trouble busy staff. Mobility equipment, meaningful walking destinations and individualised programmes and goals made mobilising easier, but patients also needed permission, encouragement and timely assistance. CONCLUSION: Inpatient mobility was low. Older acute care inpatients frequently faced a physical and/or social environment which did not support their individual capabilities.
37463284	683	692	inpatient	Disease	
37463284	1450	1454	pain	Disease	MESH:D010146

