38057708|t|Gut dysbacteriosis induces expression differences in the adult head transcriptome of Spodoptera frugiperda in a sex-specific manner.
38057708|a|Mounting evidence indicates that the gut microbiota influences the neurodevelopment and behavior of insects through the gut-brain axis. However, it is currently unclear whether the gut microbiota affect the head profiles and immune pathway in pests. Here, we find that gut bacteria is essential for the immune and neural development of adult Spodoptera frugiperda, which is an extremely destructive agricultural pest worldwide. 16 S rRNA sequencing analysis showed that antibiotics exposure significantly disturbed the composition and diversity of gut bacteria. Further transcriptomic analysis revealed that the adult head transcripts were greatly affected by gut dysbacteriosis, and differently expression genes critical for brain and neural development including A4galt, Tret1, nsun4, Galt, Mitofilin, SLC2A3, snk, GABRB3, Oamb and SLC6A1 were substantially repressed. Interestingly, the dysbacteriosis caused sex-specific differences in immune response. The mRNA levels of pll (serine/threonine protein kinase Pelle), PGRP (peptidoglycan-sensing receptor), CECA (cecropin A) and CECB (cecropin B) involved in Toll and Imd signaling pathway were drastically decreased in treated male adults' heads but not in female adults; however, genes of HIVEP2, ZNF131, inducible zinc finger protein 1-like and zinc finger protein 99-like encoding zinc-finger antiviral protein (ZAP) involved in the interferon (IFNalpha/beta) pathway were significantly inhibited in treated female adults' heads. Collectively, these results demonstrate that gut microbiota may regulate head transcription and impact the S. frugiperda adults' heads through the immune pathway in a sex-specific manner. Our finding highlights the relationship between the gut microbiota and head immune systems of S. frugiperda adults, which is an astonishing similarity with the discoveries of other animals. Therefore, this is the basis for further research to understand the interactions between hosts and microorganisms via the gut-brain axis in S. frugiperda and other insects.

