38422956|t|Reconstructing microvascular network skeletons from 3D images: What is the ground truth?
38422956|a|Structural changes to microvascular networks are increasingly highlighted as markers of pathogenesis in a wide range of disease, e.g. Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia and tumour growth. This has motivated the development of dedicated 3D imaging techniques, alongside the creation of computational modelling frameworks capable of using 3D reconstructed networks to simulate functional behaviours such as blood flow or transport processes. Extraction of 3D networks from imaging data broadly consists of two image processing steps: segmentation followed by skeletonisation. Much research effort has been devoted to segmentation field, and there are standard and widely-applied methodologies for creating and assessing gold standards or ground truths produced by manual annotation or automated algorithms. The Skeletonisation field, however, lacks widely applied, simple to compute metrics for the validation or optimisation of the numerous algorithms that exist to extract skeletons from binary images. This is particularly problematic as 3D imaging datasets increase in size and visual inspection becomes an insufficient validation approach. In this work, we first demonstrate the extent of the problem by applying 4 widely-used skeletonisation algorithms to 3 different imaging datasets. In doing so we show significant variability between reconstructed skeletons of the same segmented imaging dataset. Moreover, we show that such a structural variability propagates to simulated metrics such as blood flow. To mitigate this variability we introduce a new, fast and easy to compute super metric that compares the volume, connectivity, medialness, bifurcation point identification and homology of the reconstructed skeletons to the original segmented data. We then show that such a metric can be used to select the best performing skeletonisation algorithm for a given dataset, as well as to optimise its parameters. Finally, we demonstrate that the super metric can also be used to quickly identify how a particular skeletonisation algorithm could be improved, becoming a powerful tool in understanding the complex implication of small structural changes in a network.
38422956	223	242	Alzheimer's disease	Disease	MESH:D000544
38422956	244	261	vascular dementia	Disease	MESH:D015140
38422956	266	272	tumour	Disease	MESH:D009369

