38797797|t|The Italian guideline on comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) for the older persons: a collaborative work of 25 Italian Scientific Societies and the National Institute of Health.
38797797|a|BACKGROUND: The guideline was promoted by the Italian General Practitioners-Primary Care and Geriatrics Hospital-Community Societies and was carried out involving the National Institute of Health and an Expert Panel including representatives from 25 Scientific and Health-Professional Organizations. The aim of the Guideline was to develop evidence-based recommendations on the efficacy of CGA in older people across different clinical settings and the accuracy and utility of CGA-based tools to assess prognosis. METHODS: According to the methodological handbook of the Italian National System of Guidelines and NICE criteria (National Institute for Health and Care Excellence in England), the Guideline was produced based on the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation. Over 20,000 records gathered through databases searches were initially selected. Sixteen recommendations on CGA efficacy were defined based on 117 studies that met the inclusion criteria and were performed in general practices and primary care (26 studies included), medical and surgical clinics (16 studies), emergency departments (17 studies), hospital medical and surgical wards (53 studies), long-term care facilities and nursing homes (5 studies), hospices and palliative care networks (no studies). Nine recommendations on CGA-based prognostic tools were issues based on 42 included studies carried out in general practices and primary care (5 studies), medical and surgical clinics (4 studies), and hospital wards (33 studies). RESULTS: Using CGA can be useful to reduce hospitalization, mortality, institutionalization, the risk of delirium, and improve appropriateness in drug prescription and maintain functional activities in different settings. Further research on the efficacy of CGA in rehabilitative facilities, nursing homes, and hospice and palliative-care settings is recommended. CGA-based tools, particularly the Multidimensional Prognostic Index, should be used to predict some negative outcomes in different settings. CONCLUSIONS: This Guideline may be useful in clinical practice and as a tool to support research on the use of CGA in older people.
38797797	1821	1829	delirium	Disease	MESH:D003693

